*******
Traders
*******

Blockchain-based decentralized exchanged (DEX) are slightly different to
centralized exchanges and as a consequence, dealing with the DEX
programmatically via APIs differs from centralized approaches as well.
However, our developers have put quite some efforts into making the DEX
as easy to use as their centralized counterparties and offer an API to
the **public exchange data** that is very similar. However, **private
exchange APIs** are different due to the fact that no entity except
yourself can access your funds. For this reason, trading in the DEX
requires that you have the private key to your account installed in an
application that can construct and sign the corresponding transactions
for you. One of these applications is the :doc:`../apps/cliwallet`
which, after installation and configuration, offers a **your own private
API**.

For exchanges we recommend to also read :doc:`../what-is-different` and
:doc:`../often-used-calls`.

Public API
##########

The best way to get public data on markets is via websocket connection
to a public full-node which provides traders with

* a ticker
* order books
* trade history
* and more.

.. include:: ../public-full-nodes.rst

A detailed description of how to interface with Graphene-based
blockchain (e.g. BitShares) and a list of available calls can be found
here:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   ../../api/websocket
   ../../api/blockchain-api

Private API
###########

As briefly mentioned above, trading in the DEX programmatically requires
that you run your own :doc:`../apps/cliwallet`. The following tutorials
gives a brief introduction on how to use the CLI wallet and configure it
properly so that it can be used as a **private API server**:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   ../tutorials/preparing-cli-wallet-trading

After installation and configuration of the private API, we can use RPC
to create orders, cancel orders, create and adjust call orders, and
more.  The CLI wallet offers a wide range of calls that can be used to
mange your account and trade in the DEX:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   ../../api/wallet-api

Libraries
#########

Libraries have been developed that simply the interaction with both, the
full node and the CLI wallet and make interactions with the blockchain
and the DEX very easy:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   ../libraries/index
